=== PAGE 78 ===
SNAPSKIN INFO-TELEDERMATOLOGY APPLICATION 
65 
 
CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION, TESTING AND VALIDATION. 
5.0 Introduction 
The chapter defines the implementation of the design to meet the requirements of the system 
as well as testing and validation of the system. 
 
5.1 System Implementation 
Different technologies were used during the implementation of this application as they are 
further explained below. 
 
5.1.1  System technologies 
The Snapskin Info-Teledermatology Application was developed with the aid of React Native 
which is an open-source user-interface software framework created by Meta Platforms, Inc. It 
was used to develop applications for Android by enabling developers to use the React 
framework along with native platform capabilities. 
 
HyperText Markup Language (HTML) was used as a language that specified the structure of 
the document retrieval across the internet using browser programs on the World Wide Web. 
JavaScript (JS), which is also an easy -to-use open-source client-side scripting language, was 
used to develop dynamic functionalities of the system. Its ability to display information in the 
browsers enables users to use the system. 
 
Firebase is a platform developed by Google for creating mobile and web applications. It  is a 
Backend-as-a-Service (BaaS) app development platform that provides hosted backend services 
such as a real-time database, cloud storage, authentication, crash reporting, machine learning, 
remote configuration, and hosting for your static files.  Most of the software used in the 
application implementation were chosen because it was cheap, readily available, and supported 
in rapid development. 
 
5.2 System Functionality 
5.2.1 Authentication 
The system allows administrators to log in before accessing the Dashboard page to carry out 
the administrative roles. On the other hand, the system requires the users, that is the patients 
and the dermatologists, to login before accessing the system but requires verification of the 
doctor before he or she logs in. 

=== PAGE 79 ===
SNAPSKIN INFO-TELEDERMATOLOGY APPLICATION 
66 
 
 5.2.2 Online money Transaction 
The system allows patients to make payments for their online consultations and the 
dermatologists can receive their payments as well. 
 
 5.2. 3  Blogs and Article management 
The system administrators handle most of the information posted on the application. They 
upload information about skincare and the dermatologists available. 
  
5.2.4 Appointment booking. 
Patients are in position to make appointments and the dermatologists approve them according 
to their schedule. 
 
5.3 System Testing 
The following testing strategies were deployed: 
 
5.3.1 User testing 
A group of target users was selected to examine the system functionality and gave us feedback 
as shown in table 5.1 below. 
 User testing question 1 2 3 4 5 
1 The system enables patients to make appointments 
with the dermatologists 
     
2 The system enables patients to make consultations      
3 The system enables patients to make payments      
4 The system enables administrators to upload 
information and get reports 
     
5 The system enables the dermatologists to approve 
appointments. 
     
6 The system enables dermatologists to receive their 
payments from patients. 
     
7 The system enables administrators to assign account 
types to the users.  
     
Table 5. 1: Shows the target users selected for user testing.   
 

=== PAGE 80 ===
SNAPSKIN INFO-TELEDERMATOLOGY APPLICATION 
67 
 
Unit testing 
System testing was done after the system was coded. Individual units or components of the 
system were checked to ensure they are fully functional units before integrating them. This was 
done by examining each unit and that it performed as exactly intended. 
 
5.4 System Validation 
System validation is concerned with ensuring tha t data entered the systems meets predefined 
formats with defined input criteria. It was done to ensure that the data entered and retrieved is 
valid. 
 
  

=== PAGE 81 ===
SNAPSKIN INFO-TELEDERMATOLOGY APPLICATION 
68 
 
CHAPTER SIX: SUMMARY, LIMITATION, CONCLUSION AND 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
6.0 Introduction: 
This chapter provides a summary, limitation, conclusion, and recommendations of the 
Snapskin Info-teledermatology application. 
 
6.1 Achievements: 
The Snapskin Info -teledermatology application has ensured easy access to dermatologists, 
Skincare services, Information about skin diseases and healthy skin follow up by patients. 
 
6.2 Challenges: 
 The Snapskin Info-teledermatology application is intended to be installed on smartphones and 
used when there is internet access. As such, it requires an internet connection. The system shall 
not be able to function if the server stops running. The server should always run when the 
system is loading. 
 
6.3 Limitation of the study: 
The project needed a variety of resources that is to say funds to facilitate the data collection 
and the computer system for developing the application which were not easy to get, and it was 
difficult for us to get dermatologists to interview due to the limited number of dermatologists 
and they are always occupied since they have to meet very many patients. 
 
6.4 Recommendations: 
Snapskin Info-teledermatology application is highly recommended for use by Skin patients and 
dermatologists because its aim is to reduce the gap between dermatologists and the skin 
patients. It is also important to train and encourage users to get accustomed to the Snapskin 
Info-teledermatology application. This being a new application, some of the users (patients) 
may need to fully understand how the application functions. 
 
6.5 Conclusions:  
The core reason for the establishment of The Snapskin Info -teledermatology application is to 
reduce the gap between skin patients and dermatologists within Kampala. Therefore, the 
technologies used should   support the core objective of the system if it is to remain relevant to 
the users. A lot still needs to be done in the IT d epartment to make available technology 

=== PAGE 82 ===
SNAPSKIN INFO-TELEDERMATOLOGY APPLICATION 
69 
 
effective. The application administration has to keep updating the hardware and software 
requirements of the system through its panel; Information Technologies and computer systems 
need to be sustainably upgraded as m ore software is introduced in today's IT market. Our 
research therefore acknowledges the fact that the system is currently standalone. 
  

